(dramatic music)
Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Anderson: Growing up in montana.
I thought I knew mountain lions.
Official YIFY movies site:
YTS.MX
I've tracked these cats
through my back yard.
A kill.
And filmed them on their kills.
I know these cats.
I've studied them
my entire life.
These tracks are
less than 24 hours.
She's definitely hunting.
They're solitary. elusive.
But everything I thought
I knew. I was wrong.
On the other side of the world
These cats are re
-writing the text book.
Their social dynamics
are evolving.
And they're teaming up.
Arenada: This is when you
need to stand your ground.
Anderson: In the mountains
of patagonia.
Nature's creating.
Look at them!
A pride of pumas.
If someone told me
this was happening.
I would never believe them.
Arenada: If this is
not a pride of pumas.
Tell me what this is.
We're just trying to understand
what's going on here.
(imitating explosion booming)
Anderson: Like mind-blowing
Visual that I can't
even comprehend.
This is the mountain lion
like never seen before.
(puma growling)
(bright upbeat music)
My name's casey anderson.
I'm heading to torres del
paine national park. in chile.
One of the last truly
wild places on the planet.
An area that may hold
the densest population
Of pumas on earth.
I've been invited by rene
arenada. a chilean filmmaker.
To come down here and
witness their pumas.
It's basically the same
species that lives in montana.
But for all my
years of tracking.
I've rarely ever
seen one close up.
Here. things are different.
The pumas prowl out in the open.
And hunt by the
light of the day.
It defies everything I
know about mountain lions.
Arenada: What do you
think about this?
It's like a postcard.
Anderson: That's the thing
about this place.
The highest
concentration of pumas
In the most beautiful
place on the planet.
Arenada: A safe
paradise for them.
They don't have to
struggle against a bear.
Struggle against a wolf.
That changes the picture
completely for them. isn't it?
Anderson: It's got to.
Arenada: Well there's things
we've been watching
For the last couple of years.
We're trying to learn
more about this also.
Because there's a
lot of things that.
You know. they're
not on the books.
Anderson: In all my life. until
I was 30 years old.
Right around there. I'd only
seen six mountain lions.
Like just short glimpses.
in all of my entire life.
Arenada: You need to
turn the radar on.
Anderson: Turning it on now.
(upbeat music)
So what's the next move?
Arenada: Prepare ourselves
and go for a walk.
Anderson: We should
go out there.
We've got a special
permit for just five days
To explore what's known
as the puma triangle.
(gentle music)
Two sides of the
triangle are fortified
By natural barriers
within the park.
The third side is bordered
by private farmland
Where pumas are
protected from hunting.
This island of safety
creates a puma paradise
At the southern tip the world.
Arenada: So this is the
puma triangle.
One of the best
places in the world
To see these animals up close
And witness their
social dynamics.
The park is very well protected
By the mountain
and the ice fields.
Anderson: This is one of the
most beautiful things
I've ever seen.
Arenada: And now having
that farmland
That is not hunting pumas.
It's actually opening
a corridor for them
To go out if necessary.
So that's really
good for the species.
So it's a perfect storm.
There's many pumas
but they're hiding
And we need to find them.
(gentle music)
Anderson: Rene's spent years
following the pumas here.
He knows the individual
cats by name.
Can recognize them. knows
their family lineages.
He's watched mothers raise
several generations of cubs.
And knows which males
are dominant in the area.
If anyone can show me the secret
lives of pumas. it's rene.
But so far. I'm not
seeing any signs.
This is an area that rene
often sees pumas on the move.
Arenada: This trail. it is
open for tourism.
And it's one of
our favorite spots.
Inside the national park.
outside the national park.
(dramatic music)
These patches of forest.
It's full of puma
trails here inside.
Actually here.
this is a puma bed
And it's very recently used.
They use these forests to
sleep. and to raise their cubs.
Isn't it amazing and
scary that I'm pretty sure
There's a puma around
us right now watching.
They're always around us
And you are only going to
see them if they want you to.
Anderson:  I always used to say.
"keep your head on a swivel."
I just always do this.
Not a kind of a paranoid thing.
It's literally you're
walking by something
Almost guaranteed every time.
Arenada: Yeah.
(guanacos squawking)
Anderson: At home in montana.
The magpies will always tell me
When there's a predator around.
Here. apparently.
it's the guanacos.
Arenada: Can you see it. casey?
Anderson: Oh yeah. I see it too.
Arenada: Can you see it?
Anderson: Definitely.
Sitting on the hill.
about 200 yards from us.
Is my first chilean puma.
I can't believe
he's just out there
In the open watching
us like that.
That's the male?
The head looks big.
Arenada: We should try to
approach that animal.
Just. there's enough distance.
and we have enough space
To approach a little bit
more to have a closer look.
Anderson: I forgot something
at the truck.
(rene laughing)
Let me just put
this in perspective.
I've lived my entire life
in montana trying to peer
Into the lives of these animals.
But they are ghosts.
I literally had a puma
living in my backyard.
That I named mama mo.
For a year I tracked her every
day with the best technology.
And even then I was lucky
Just to catch an occasional
glimpse of her and her cubs.
Now. on my first day in chile.
I'm face to face with one.
And he doesn't seem to
care about me at all.
So. looking at this cat.
We're trying to
figure out who it is.
These guys know these
cats like their family.
But this cat is
a little unknown.
Do you know why he has no scars?
Arenada: Why?
Anderson: And he's beautiful?
'cause he never loses a fight.
So. I think we name him casey.
Arenada: He's too
handsome for that.
He's too handsome
to be called casey.
Okay. casey. let's see how
close you can get to this puma.
Anderson: So the guys have come
up with this great idea.
Tap into all your puma
experience over the lifetime.
And see how close you
can get to this cat.
Arenada: You go first.
You want to try to see.
test the tolerance level.
Once you find a spot. you
sit down. very relaxed.
You sit down and I'll join you.
Anderson: And I'm thinking to
myself. sounds cool. maybe.
(laughs) all right.
Arenada: Good luck. sir.
Anderson: I'm on my own.
(gentle music)
I'm really out of
my comfort zone.
There's no way a mountain lion
Would let me
approach in montana.
But this cat doesn't seem
to have any fear of humans.
Arenada: He's doing something
That he never thought
was possible to do.
If you've tried to see pumas
anywhere else in the world.
You realize how
impossible this is.
This is not the elusive
ghost like you see
In the rest of the
american continent.
This is an animal that is safe.
That is very confident
in his surrounding.
And he's not feeling
threatened by us. by humans.
That's why you get these
interactions right now.
Someone that can approach
the animal. observe him
And follow if necessary
Without disturbing
their natural behavior.
Anderson: I've never
been in a place
Where animals are looking at me
Like this cat's looking at me.
Just no fear.
This is as close as I've
been to a wild puma.
And the cat just doesn't care.
And it just like. it made
me like a little kid again.
I couldn't contain my
excitement in this moment.
It was just. this is exactly
what I came here for.
And here it is right
in front of me.
Arenada: He has a massive
smile on his face.
This is amazing isn't it?
Having a chance of spending
time with an animal like this.
As elusive as these pumas are.
Anderson: It doesn't make
any sense to me.
This is more true to
its self. in many ways.
The way this confidence
And this relationship
is the way it should be.
This is a cat that has not
been ruined at some level.
Arenada: By anyone.
Anderson: Right.
Arenada: Humans.
Anderson: This is pure.
pure puma.
(gentle music)
As we watch casey. the
mystery male walk away.
He's moving with purpose.
He knows where he's going.
And then a second puma
appears out of nowhere.
(both laughing)
And this cat rene
knows very well.
Arenada: Oh. this is amazing.
This is sister.
So we know this cat for
years. since she was a cub
About six or seven years ago.
She's unmistakable.
Anderson: Are they flirting
or are they playing?
Arenada: Definitely flirting.
Anderson: Just coming
over the top
Of that little ridge
right there
And looking up and seeing
two pumas on the ridge.
With that in the background.
This is like all my
dreams come true.
Back home. this would
be the greatest shot
I've ever shot in
my life. (laughs)
It's ridiculous.
Arenada: She's cool.
She's a cool cat.
She's like the aunt
of this neighborhood
'cause she's never
had cubs before.
It's really cool that's
she's hanging out
With this new male.
Anderson: They're just
doing their thing.
(puma snarling)
As soon as you put the female
aspect into this equation.
Arenada: Things can become
a little bit unpredictable.
Anderson: He's just got this
look on his face.
This cat has no fear.
And all of a sudden. he
starts walking over to us.
And they're getting closer
and closer and closer.
(dramatic music)
As rene and I watch.
The mystery male keeps
coming straight at us.
Guarding his potential mate.
Arenada: This is when you
need to stand your ground.
Anderson: We group together.
Essentially forming
a pack of our own.
I never expected to get
this close to a wild puma.
And in that moment rene and I
had the exact same reaction.
Arenada: It felt like
you shouldn't
Be looking to the eyes.
Anderson: I agree.
Arenada: You felt the same.
Anderson: Yeah. I totally did.
Just breaking eye contact.
dipping our heads.
Letting him walk by.
Arenada: I wouldn't say that
this is a threat.
I wouldn't say that this is
the animal watching us as.
You know. we will become a prey.
They will see us as something
that is not very common.
Like sort of we are
on the same level.
Anderson: You're having new
experiences too.
Arenada: That was a
brilliant day.
Anderson: It is.
(gentle music)
I've learned on day one
to expect the unexpected.
This is nothing like tracking
mountain lions in montana.
And I've never felt more
alive in my entire life.
In the morning we set out to see
If we can find sister and casey.
the mystery male once more.
Often a male and female
will stay together
For several days while mating.
But the male is a visitor.
This is sister's home range.
And rene knows where her
favorite hunting grounds are.
(dramatic music)
Just walking up here and
seeing these guanaco here.
Seems like they're
in a bad spot.
Arenada: Horrible spot.
Anderson: Heck. a puma could get
right in here so easy.
Arenada: There must be pumas
somewhere around.
The guanacos. they
don't mind about us.
They don't care about us.
And that's why when
you hear an alarm call
It's like 100% a puma.
Anderson: Yeah.
Arenada: It's not afraid of..
Anderson: No. we're definitely
not on the danger radar.
The pumas don't care at all.
This is the one
place in the world
That you could literally
be part of the landscape
Without influencing any of this
predator/prey relationship.
(radio beeping)
Until the radio goes off and
just blows the whole thing.
(both laughing)
Arenada: That's pizza.
that's hamburger.
And if pizza gets nailed.
hamburger will learn the lesson.
He will see it happening
in front of his eyes.
Anderson: Look out dude. there's
some pumas around here.
Don't say we didn't warn ya.
(somber music)
The guanacos don't lie.
If they see a cat.
They're gonna call them
out with this alarm call.
Arenada: That is what these
guanacos do most of the day.
They will feed. raise
their heads. look around.
Guanacos are clever animals.
Anderson: So what you try
to do is you watch
Where that guanaco's looking.
And you'd watch where
the other one's looking.
And you'd try to
triangulate and figure out.
Look in that area and try
to find this cat moving
Across the landscape.
Could be 10 meters away.
or three kilometers away.
Their eyesight is amazing.
and for good reason.
They have to watch
this landscape
Because at any second a puma
could be sneaking up on them.
(dramatic music)
(guanacos squawking)
Arenada: This one. and that one.
They're looking
to the same point.
Anderson: Sure enough. with the
help of the guanacos
We find sister patrolling
the border of the park.
Casey. the mystery male.
is nowhere to be seen.
I feel like we're just one
of the guanacos right now.
Watching a puma
stalk towards you.
Arenada: So this is definitely
her territory.
And she's the one that's
using the fence to hunt.
She's clever.
She lives right in the border
Between the national
park and the farmlands.
There's a fence in there.
And she kind of patrols
that fence most of the time.
(dramatic music)
Anderson: She basically just
walks back and forth.
Working. patrolling the fence.
(guanaco squawking)
Arenada: He's the lucky guy
today. he's safe now.
Anderson: I'm going to name that
guanaco rene. in your honor.
Arenada: So you have a puma
and I have guanaco?
Your puma's gonna endure for
a couple of years. for sure.
But this one might die tonight.
Anderson: I hope not.
Arenada: No.
Anderson: I really hope not.
Arenada: He's a brave guy.
Standing his ground.
Anderson: He just saved his
family. he's a hero.
She's still on the move
right. we should follow.
Arenada: Totally.
Anderson: Let's go.
Arenada: We've got our
puma now. it's still early.
Anderson: We know
where she's at.
Thanks guanacos.
Arenada: We've been following
this puma for 500 meters.
And we saw her stalking
on the top of this hill.
So we came down. and there's
a guanaco in position
To be eaten by the puma.
Anderson: Yeah. this is
a great situation
Just to wait up the hill.
But the shrubbery there.
It's thick. it's thick
as it gets around here.
So she's got the cover.
The guanaco doesn't
seem to notice anything.
There's not a lot around
that could bust her.
So this is a recipe for
potentially witnessing
A puma making a kill.
(dramatic music)
Just a few days ago I
thought it was impossible
To be this close to
a puma on the prowl.
And now here we are.
Watching one of nature's
greatest hunters in action.
It's fun to watch.
'cause it's like a game
of red light. green light.
The guanaco head goes
down. sister moves in.
Guanaco head comes up. freeze.
Arenada: Patience means
waiting when to do your move.
And that's. that's a skill.
Anderson: It is a skill.
The guanaco's head's
down. turned away.
Arenada: Oh. that's perfect.
Anderson: This
guy's not looking.
This is working
out. I don't know.
That guy is looking now.
Arenada: She's 20
meters away now.
She still needs a
couple of meters.
Anderson: She's low
enough now that.
Arenada: She's moving.
She's getting the
right position.
(guanaco squawking)
Anderson: Oops. busted.
Dang it.
Arenada: That was close though.
Anderson: That was close.
Seeing sister get so close.
yet still fail reminds me that.
Even for a master predator.
Hunting alone in the wide
open is extremely difficult.
It could easily take
20 or more attempts
Just to make a kill.
She moves on. she's gotta do it.
She's gonna have
to do it some time.
Watching this play
out. in broad daylight.
Just blows my mind.
Arenada: You never
expected this.
Anderson: Nah. no.
Arenada: You didn't
believe me then.
Anderson: No.
(both laughing)
Sure enough. there's
a pot of gold
At the end of the rainbow.
and it's this big.
That's how this feels.
(upbeat music)
Arenada: So now we are
literally following the puma.
It's like following at her back.
observing what she's doing.
Anderson: We're on the hunt.
right. part of the pride.
In my wildest dreams I couldn't
imagine the possibility
Of walking alongside
a puma like this.
This is not affecting her.
the guanacos or anything else.
We're literally in the moment
with this puma. and that's.
Arenada: It's a very
intimate moment.
Having the chance
to spend five hours
With an individual is an
awesome reward from nature.
(guanacos squawking)
As sister continues to
search for her next meal.
She slips out of sight.
(bird chirping)
By the time we find her.
She's stalked into another
position to strike.
Wow. (laughs) I can't keep
my binoculars off of it.
Arenada: It's just one more neck
down to eat some grass.
And that could be the last
grass of this guanaco.
Hunting here is not easy at all.
It's open landscape. you
have nothing to hide.
So it takes years for
you to get these skills
And become a good hunter.
Anderson: The head down.
she's making a last move.
Arenada: She's making a move.
Anderson: Making a move.
come on. come on. come on.
She's getting close. man.
This is gonna happen. this
is gonna happen. isn't it.
Come on.
Arenada: So. this is
her style of hunting.
She's trying to get
as close as possible.
She's not a runner.
Anderson: The cats back
home would have run
At these guys a long time ago.
Arenada: It's gonna happen
at any moment.
Now. now.
Anderson: Here it goes.
here it goes.
She is in the zone.
Arenada: I'm nervous.
Anderson: Yeah.
Arenada: I really
hope she gets this.
Anderson: Oh. come on.
Look how low she is.
She's basically
doing a belly crawl.
Uh-oh. up on. the one up
top might have busted her.
Arenada: Not yet.
Anderson: Don't see
her. don't see her.
Oh man. this shows how
hard this can be. you know?
The one closest to her has
no idea what's going on. no.
Arenada: She's still close.
(dramatic music)
(guanaco squawking)
Anderson: (groans) that close.
(bright music)
Arenada: Seems like
they don't want
To waste the energy on
something that is not 100% sure.
Anderson: Yeah.
Arenada: And that's
what we've seen.
Anderson: But she's
right back to it.
She's like okay. failure.
now no time to sit around
And be depressed about it.
It's time to go kill something.
Move on.
Sister's odds of making a kill
Dramatically improve at night.
Her enormous eyes can
virtually see in the dark.
A difficult weapon for
guanacos to defend against.
Under the cloak of darkness.
Pumas have their
greatest success.
(gentle music)
(birds chirping)
In the morning we are back
out searching for sister.
Hoping that she's made a kill.
Arenada: It's cold today.
Anderson: Suddenly.
out of nowhere.
A family of four pumas
appears on the move.
Arenada: If we're lucky.
they might be moving
From the kill or to the
kill. we don't know.
Anderson: Rene recognizes them.
Arenada: I've known these guys
since they were born almost.
This is mother.
We call her mother because
she is sister's mother.
It's cool to see her again.
Anderson: That's sister's mom?
Arenada: Oh yeah. so you
know a family now.
So these guys are the
next litter after sister.
They're very close
to independence now.
Now they need to
find a place to rest
For the rest of the day.
Anderson: Looks like they're
gonna lay down right there.
As the family beds
down for the day.
Another puma appears above them.
Arenada: There's a fifth puma.
Which we don't really
know which puma is. yet.
We need to have a closer look.
Anderson: That's
definitely a female.
Arenada: Yeah.
Anderson: Adult female.
Arenada: Yeah. you know
what. that's sister.
That's definitely sister.
Anderson: So she's
watching her mom?
Arenada: She never left home.
She's telling us something
about the social behavior
That we don't fully understand.
It's rare. it's really rare.
Anderson: Yeah. I know. you
don't see this back home.
Obviously. I've been filming
a mother with three kittens.
About the same age.
but never. ever saw her
With another cat.
These are supposed to
be solitary animals.
Why is sister. an adult puma.
Still hanging around her mother?
Does she still depend on
her for occasional meals?
Or does she just like
being close to her family?
Arenada: Knowing sister
and her mother for years.
It's not hard to understand
why these bonds remain strong.
Sister. and these three
younger cubs are lucky
To have one of the best
moms I've seen in nature.
(gentle music)
I first filmed these cubs when
they were three months old.
The kittens have spent every
minute of their lives together.
Safe under the tireless
protection of their mother.
Day after day this
mother teaches the cubs
To stalk. and pounce.
It's how they learn
everything they need
To one day survive on their own.
She brings them to
her kills to feast.
It's the first step in
weaning them off her milk.
And patiently nudges them
Towards more and
more independence.
Do they just forget these
close bonds when they grow up?
I don't think so.
Perhaps the bonding even
continues into adulthood.
Anderson: As we're
watching the family.
Something interesting happens.
All the cubs get up with
a clear sense of purpose.
They just start going somewhere
And it's really evident
they're going somewhere.
Arenada: So we need
to follow them.
Obviously something's going on.
They're maybe moving to a kill.
(dramatic music)
Anderson: They're
straight-lining to this spot.
Mom knows where they're going.
she's not too concerned.
Let them go.
She'll follow up behind.
Arenada: Sister's coming down.
She's following them.
Anderson: She's totally
gonna follow them.
This is getting even better.
Do you think the mom will let
sister come near the cubs?
Arenada: I don't know.
Anderson: Sister's
keeping a safe distance
But clearly she wants to
stay close to her mother.
But why?
Does she know where
they're going?
Arenada: Maybe she's gonna
try to get food.
Maybe she's just gonna
try to be around her mom.
Anderson: What we discover
next changes everything
We thought we knew about pumas.
Arenada: Right here.
there's one. two.
Anderson: There's
literally eight pumas
All starting to come together.
(imitates explosion booming)
Like mind-blowing visual
that I can't even comprehend.
The mother with those kittens.
The kittens left. they
were going somewhere.
And it's like they were going
over to their cousin's house.
Arenada: We're just
trying to understand
What's going on here.
Anderson: Yeah. there's
something definitely
Happening here.
And that's. they
know each other.
(bright music)
(birds chirping)
There's nothing
in the wild world
That's cooler than
this right now.
Four cats walking
out in the wide open.
And three cats going down
And meeting with them
right in front of us.
And there's another
cat on the ridge.
What's gonna happen?
Is there a fight. is
there a kill there?
What's gonna happen?
There's no aggression.
There's actually the
opposite of that.
It's like you're seeing
the same greeting
That you would see between
a mother and its kittens.
Except for this is two
mothers and their kittens.
Arenada: It could be
either sisters
From different generations
or mother and daughter.
Anderson: Whether it's
direct. mother/sister.
Or if it's just like two groups
That have decided to get along.
And what we're seeing here
is the ultimate tolerance.
We have seven pumas laying
out in the wide open.
Just like african lions.
If someone told me
this was happening.
I would never believe them.
Arenada: And then you have this
other female. the sister.
Our sister. and she's waiting
for a chance to go in.
Anderson: I used to think a
cat's a cat's a cat.
Until today this is
not the cat I thought
I would come here to see.
They're doing things that
I would never even imagine.
Here's the big question.
Is this what pumas have
been doing all along?
Or is this new behavior.
Evolution happening
right before our eyes?
Arenada: What if we are able to
watch for the first time
A pride like this hunting
a guanaco altogether?
Cooperating and
doing a strategy.
Anderson: If they decided
to start to do that.
If that started to
evolve. that behavior--
Arenada: It's a
learning process.
Anderson: Definitely.
Arenada: It's just a matter of
one trying to kill a guanaco.
And the other one's
getting close.
And eventually trying to help.
Anderson: Yeah. there's
no reason
Why that couldn't happen here.
Then this group
of pumas together
Just starts to move as one.
Look at that.
Look at that!
You should shoot that.
It looks like we're
in the african savanna
Watching african lions walk.
But we're here in patagonia.
watching pumas walk together.
And it just takes
my breath away.
Have you ever read
this in a book before?
Arenada: No. never.
Anderson: Exactly.
Arenada: None of us.
Anderson: So I think the
lesson learned here is.
It's time to rip the books up
and start writing them again.
Arenada: As we were
watching those.
We just got a puma
walking behind us.
Anderson: Yeah. that's
the eighth puma.
Arenada: That's sister.
she's following her mom.
(dramatic music)
Arenada: I keep expecting like
five more to go by.
Look how this
one's going around.
It's almost like they're.
it's got like a tactic.
If there was a guanaco
on the other side.
That would be exactly
the hunting strategy
That an african lion would have.
You guys push them
around the mountain.
Arenada: I'll be waiting.
Anderson: Wabam!
Arenada: There's something
going on. dudes.
We need to follow.
Anderson: Let's go.
We have eight pumas all
heading off together
In the same direction.
We have to see
where they're going.
The pride's on the move
and for half an hour
It's all we can do to keep up.
Arenada: There's definitely
communication between them.
They're hanging out together.
they're walking together.
They're following each other.
They're vocalizing now.
Anderson: And then we see
what's brought them together.
Look at them.
(pumas snarling)
Rene and I have followed these
cats to the ultimate feast.
Arenada: It took us a while to
follow. and they have a kill.
So the pumas we saw moving
together. interacting.
Communicating. they're
also feeding together.
(gentle music)
Is your brain exploding now?
Anderson: Yeah. it's exploding.
So they've all came down to
share this kill. looks like.
Arenada: That's why they
were all moving together.
That's why sister
is following them.
So the question is
who killed that guy?
(puma hissing)
(pumas growling)
Arenada: A little eruption of
a fight here and there.
Sharing when you're a predator.
Might mean eating
off the same carcass.
But every once in a while
you'll give them one of these.
You've got this intermixed
relationship of different pumas
That have decided to
come together as one.
Arenada: That's not tolerance
anymore. that is sharing.
If this is not a pride of
pumas. tell me what this is.
Anderson: It's a pride of pumas.
Arenada: Four pumas down
here and three pumas
That they already ate.
And this other cat coming
down. which makes eight.
Anderson: Eight pumas.
this is crazy.
Arenada: It's a big barbecue.
Anderson: It is a
barbecue. puma barbecue.
Anderson: We have this
other cat. sister.
Just waiting there for
her turn to go and eat.
Like a very well
-behaved older sister.
Anderson: There she goes.
There she goes.
Arenada: She's always pushing
these social boundaries.
And potentially could be
dangerous and she's on her own.
But she's taking that risk.
Will they let sister
come in and feed?
That's the question.
(pumas growling)
(dramatic music)
Anderson: Looks like everybody.
Everybody's kind of stopped
eating and stepped away.
Sister's patience pays off.
The other pumas finally
allow her to share the kill.
(gentle music)
Arenada: This is probably the
most amazing social dynamic
That we will ever witness.
A group of two
different families.
Vocalizing between each other.
Obviously they know each
other and they gather together
And they walk to a kill.
That. who knows who killed
it. that's the other question
That get our brains
exploding. what happened here?
And then having this extra
puma which is the sister.
And she's being allowed
to be around them
And going and feeding.
with their food.
This is really not a solitary
cat as the book says.
It's a social animal. that
interacts with others.
And they know their neighborhood
And the cats that live around.
And they help each other.
(triumphant music)
Anderson: In this vast
patagonia landscape.
I see a vision of the wild I
thought had long disappeared.
Just five days ago.
I couldn't even imagine
what we've witnessed here.
A place where large predators
have the space to roam free.
Where they're protected
and have no fear of humans.
And there's enough food
that they can cooperate
Instead of compete.
But so many questions
still remain.
Will the pumas learn
to hunt together?
Could this be a step
In the evolution of
their social behavior?
And. when can I come back?